you know what I'm about I've noticed yen
so you know the veganism in a lot of
ways to attract some of the most you
know deranged and you know lost people
in society understand those people they
don't have any purpose in life you know
they're struggling they empty souls I
feel like even for me and we said this
more looking at the time that I found
you know YouTube and veganism on YouTube
I was looking for something something
bigger a higher power something to be a
part of you know and I might be one of
the most lost souls on the YouTube here
empty souls moves in this is what friend
enduring want to do every day granting
to each other I remember it was not too
long ago that durianrider and the
illustrious Julia Bohr were were both
claiming that somehow I was in a sexual
triangle with like you and Julia that
like like at the same time I was trying
to seduce like you in Scotland and Julia
and Chiangmai and they were constantly
including you in the category of
underage girls
so like the amount of imagination
involved here is like one that you're
supposed to be I don't even know how
young 15 just thinking of it now it's so
absurd and just ridiculous the other
thing is like you know I mean most men
kind of have a type if there are some
men who would want to pursue Julia bore
in her current state there are some men
for whom that's what they're looking for
and there are some men who would prefer
a an extremely slim woman like yourself
at the time you had only recently I
think you know been you know gotten out
of the hospital and so on you know you
were really in recovery
curricula puts of the idea that I'm
seducing two women of such dramatically
different descriptions on two continents
I know I know
in China gets all to come together in
Chiang Mai and me and that I could be
sent to prison for this you know if
there was if there was a guy doing that
if there was a guy trying to seduce you
it's gone I don't know maybe he'd be a
nice guy is that really like a criminal
and I just just thought of it it's just
sort of that yes and the fact I was like
even when I do it later there was
nothing to even suggest that he just
came out with it yourself he made it all
up and has mind but it's just shows like
has made doesn't it just shows like what
has thinking is all about it because
even Julia herself doesn't think that
then think anything that came in that's
true but at one point I remember Julia
was kind of elaborating a story on her
blog that I was this mystery man who was
seducing a tremendous number of women in
Chiangmai she invented a kind of fantasy
life for me but she did not fancy
herself as being the main object of my
desire and those in those fantasies I
was apparently just trying to get as
many as many women as possible so you
know this reflects the the creative
potential of Julia as an author one day
I hope she goes on to become a romance
no no no she won't
Julia Julia won because when someone
told me to go and check out our tumblr
to do some things that she'd say that me
right so I went but one of the things
that she's [ __ ] today one of her last
ask so just read it out to you and
someone asked her hi Julia for your
plans after high school do you plan to
attend uni and one sentence no uni moved
to Thailand or Romania and train
it's hard white plans for the future
basically sad it's really really sad but
I've actually seen her once I don't read
her tumblr I was only reading it back
when I was directly having to respond to
it but I have seen her refer to her
future plans as being modeling of some
kind and then people were into her and
said look you're delusional do you
really think you can be a model and you
know she did have some answers her
answers were not completely stupid she
said well you know basically she was
talking about living the same kind of
life that freely lives which is not you
know frillies not a model per se she's
not paid by a modeling agency but yeah
we're all allowed to dream all right
um you know it's it's ironic obviously I
don't want this whole conversation to be
about Julia but one day I was I was
going to the gym here I have a very nice
gym the video the video upload today I
should shows you my gym for a couple of
seconds and I thought you know what the
greatest irony is that probably like if
I was talking to Julia's parents I would
say you know what you can do with Julia
you could actually send her to Kunming
the city of living in China she could
actually become a student at my school
where I'm learning Chinese and she could
work out of this gym every day
you know like obviously would be though
it'd be the worst scandal in the world
if I actually invited Julia here to join
me but you know with this school we have
most of the students are old like some
of them are over 60
most of them middle-aged people we do
actually have like 15 year old 16 year
old students here also who are you know
taking care of you know the school they
kind of treat them differently obviously
they don't know quite the same rights
and freedoms that I do and there are
there are parents who send their kids
here at 15 and 16 to study Chinese
without without a parent which surprised
me but they do so I just say if you know
it is an irony of ironies that yeah
actually I could recommend that Julia
live exactly my lifestyle and you know
she'd lose weight too she'd work out of
the gym here she does she'll get in
shape
anyway then that would be that would be
a scandal of course you invited her
there could you imagine the speculation
that people would come up with right
right it's a shame I remember - she got
not even hate mail but just like puzzled
mail like I remember people writing in
to her and asking
like why do you think aisel is attracted
to you like he's you're not smart or
interesting why do you so this skill
that you're working out like em oh is
that the International people come there
to wear in Chinese is that what it is
well so there was a you know I used to
live in Scotland I used to have a
Scottish accent I can tell you but that
a second but even there you managed to
to trick me cuz you said this school
you're working at I thought you said
this girl you're working at I thought it
was this girl you're working even though
even though I but I was you know I was
in Glasgow I don't know if I mentioned
you probably did somewhere but you know
I was in Glasgow when I was I think 12
turning 13 I think during that like
year-and-a-half and during that time I
actually had I by the end of it I had a
perfect Scottish accent and people
people did not believe I was Canadian
anymore because I managed to blend in
but anyway yeah so I I remember
practicing some of the small vowel
changes like you know consistently the
word fish was instead fish you know just
some of the some of the changes like
that but yeah I did I did get used to it
and we saw you were asking about the the
school I'm at not the girl I'm at all
right yeah we should also be a good
question cool yeah this school you know
say it's actually the most positive
experience I've had in organized
education of any kind in some ways like
it's really grotty like you know just
the you know my conditions are not
luxurious there's construction noise
that said the window right now there's
there are mosquitos you know just the
the actual bathrooms and plumbing and
that kind of thing are not impressive
but the core educational experience of
sitting down with a teacher for four
hours a day every day and working on the
language is better than anything I've
seen at any university or of course any
any high school or anything else I've
ever had it's better than anything I've
seen myself in a Buddhist monastery and
in some ways have said my life here is
in some ways has some of the ideal
elements of being in a Buddhist
monastery and in some ways ideal
elements of signing up for the the
military or whatever
which have been other kind of
possibilities in my life but it is it is
just a private for-profit school it's
not the government doesn't give it any
money it's not part of university some
some people decided to to get involved
they named it after your Scottish poet
it's named after Keats Keats of Scottish
wasn't he he is sorry couldn't you know
she uh Keats
so this is this is the Keats school
believe it or not so we have not read
any poetry of Keats in Chinese
translation yet but enough I've actually
asked them if they can sell me like a
t-shirt that says Keats because that's
the name it says Keats in English
notices Keats in Chinese that's it it's
like you know yeah yeah man I'm into
Scottish poetry and Chinese translation
but they have like you know the
government here they do translate all
that stuff
anyone who's considered a genius must be
officially translated Chinese so I'm
sure there are very good translations of
Keats into Chinese for me to study when
I reached that level but yes so it's
it's in some ways a really humble set up
and in some ways just for me personally
I really dig it and I'm now I'm now
assuming I'm gonna stay until December
which most people here regard is insane
because most people if they live like
this for two weeks they start going
crazy you know they want to have a more
luxurious lifestyle or you know not even
luxurious they just want to do their own
thing they want to be able to walk
around naked or something you know in
your own apartment in your own apartment
you can walk around naked you know what
I mean you you kind of in that sense
here you never really relax occasionally
say Lauren it's such an irony I don't
think I've told you this I told a few
people but my parents actually like
asked me if I wanted to do that what
like just a couple weeks ago they were
like oh well like seeing as your job in
China didn't work out do you want to
just take a year off and like live in
Thailand and like and there they
actually said to me and they're like you
know like your income from patreon it's
probably enough and we can help you out
like you know they'd help me out if I
had a problem or needed an airplane
ticket or something this this is the
opposite a video and seem to people yeah
so my parents and
offered me to like king of like like pay
for me I'm just gonna take a hero in
Thailand I can just imagine at that
video I'm gonna move into extorted vegan
Ava and Joe best you know the ire the
other irony is though that I do I do
speak Thai I was just there speaking
Thai I speak Thai better than I speak
Chinese now so likens in a lot of ways
life in Thailand is more easy for me and
interesting and it is like a weird
what-if question in my life like I'm
glad I got divorced I don't I don't
regret my divorce that's why I talk
about it openly but you know my wife and
I just before we got divorce we moved to
Taiwan together we're in Taiwan for a
couple of months then we finally split
up but another option at that time if
I'd wanted it I could have then you know
moved to Thailand and taking a year off
and then like now I didn't really think
about it because I just I don't want to
relax I don't want to be on vacation you
know I want to be I've got ambitions
even though my ambitions are really not
about about earning money you know doing
other things anyway look I don't need to
ask that question if it's uncomfortable
but I was just wondering because I heard
you and you and cheetah talking about it
and I was just wondering you know your
own status as someone who is diagnosed
interaction talk about anorexia
obviously I see that as a totally
positive thing on your YouTube channel
and in your digital life but I just
wondered how does that actually play out
at a gym or in the personal trainer or
side of your life or is it just never
mentioned does it just not talked about
that means lots of it I mean because I'm
Kaila I'm like one of the people who
have one friend I'm small and I'm petite
and like people will not listen I'm thin
and I'm canine I've got muscle and I
want like kinda gymnastic Ethan saw Cana
I like like physically it's not much of
an issue but safer logically for me
sometimes it can be quite difficult if
you know I mean because a lot of my
clients are just you know that they're
so everyone was just so obsessed with
way getting abs and losing best but afar
and everything so psychologically it can
be quite difficult
I knew one girl pardon me uh just about
the time I started University she was
diagnosed with an American she was
hospitalized so I just I do not know how
extreme she was when I knew her she had
no physical signs of it but she had been
put in hospital for a little while and
both before and after she was in the
hospital her job was working at a store
that was called the weight loss shop
where she sold you were her full-time
job was selling like you know miracle
weight-loss powders and [ __ ] you know
like whatever green he thought so like
you know and I mean I guess the only
thing that maybe made that easier I
think her clients were almost entirely
elderly women they were like women over
over 60 but still it was like well so
like every week you talk to a therapist
for several hours about how all the
weight loss stuff is [ __ ] and then
you go into a shop and sell exactly me
I've never been like I've always came in
from retail pop notes and I've never
yeah I mean I'll get companies like hair
belief and weight loss pills and all
this contact and they say yeah would you
like to team up with us and I'm just no
because I took I haven't so something
that I don't believe in anyway and but
you know the thing I was like the tercel
trainer that's dead skin again to acid
pool assim I mean I've been an athlete
my whole life I've always been involved
in sports and I've always been MJC done
that you know some as a big passion for
me but then I guess it like being a
runner and things then you know what
like the Analects I just can't go even
worse and and things so it's not like I
just became a pair so Trina I just
became interested in sport with my
eating disorder but you know I'm not
interested in no helping people to like
healthy mind say and healthy body I'm
not into the catotti weight-loss
Beachbody stuff and everything so it's
kinda it's definitely I I want to
directly respond to something you said a
minute ago and it relates to everything
real it's the durianrider relates to
trying out relates to Scotland even but
you know um the contrast you were saying
that you've always been an athlete
you've always been involved in sport
I can say the opposite I have never been
an athlete I've never been involved with
sport even when I was doing the
long-distance cycling for me it wasn't
sport it was always just about being
prepared for physical violence you know
and you know again like honestly
Scotland was part of that when I was in
Glasgow it's a long time ago Glasgow is
a different town but Glasgow was really
a very two-fisted fighting town and you
know the Catholics would be at the
Protestants and the pradhans to beat up
the Catholics just this very you know
miscellaneous violence to to Glasgow at
that time and you know again I think you
probably get this impression but channel
like I'm not someone who goes out
seeking violence by any means but like
here you know my Chinese teachers again
we're talking in Chinese but really
simple sentences and they ask me things
like oh so why do you go to the gym like
what sport do you play and I tell them
honestly in Chinese like one of my
answers was like I don't play any sport
like I exercise to be ready for fight
because that's like I can't say it in a
more sophisticated way in Chinese but
that you know that that really has been
the road of my life whether I was
working at a gym or times when I really
didn't have access to a gym had to come
up with other creative ways to do it and
you know um it's funny the ways people
pick up on it a new student who just
arrived here and I do have to physically
sit and talk with these people even if I
don't like them um but anyway they're
not they're not all terrible but some of
them are pretty terrible but one guy sat
down he said he's about the same age as
me maybe a couple years younger
a nice-looking white American guy blond
wears glasses he just doesn't look tough
he looks like a nice guy and he was
telling me about all the harassment he
gets on the street see her like just
like adult men like harassing him and
like like one example like he was
walking in the street and some guys who
all seem to be on the same team like
maybe they were a rugby team let Chinese
Chinese guys on a rugby team or
something just started shouting at him
in English like [ __ ] you [ __ ] yourself
like they were just shouting the only
insults they knew in English which is
not very good and you're like seeing how
he would react I just sat and I said to
him like
it's amazing cuz like let me tell you
like I don't think I'm the toughest guy
on the block
but literally nobody here even looks at
me funny like it was just amazing to sit
there next to a guy he'd only been here
for a couple days and he already had
this amazing experience with people kind
of taking a poke at him on the street
and you know so from Glasgow to Kunming
it's just you know in that that's also a
sense in which it shapes my life is just
all the problems you don't have and all
the things you don't get into and that's
you know so and you know that that
obviously that side of my character was
really brought to the forefront with the
durianrider thing and Chiangmai in a way
that I never thought it would be because
I mean you know my life is boring
because I mean give it are me when I was
when I was falling doing later and then
I first heard of it you and all the
things I said this was before the thing
that I gotta go but I I'm nothing
nothing about you but the way that he
like painted this picture look good I
thought you were that's criminal that's
CIA guy that's absolutely horrible like
that's crazy I don't know gangster those
gangster guy and that's really key mate
she's like see like and then and then I
was watching your fatty was more
recently and you're sitting there
laughing like yeah my life is boarding
and your son and there's like little
room and China and stuff and I'm like I
I'm so embarrassed I actually believed
30 no you don't you know and actually
when you actually see what your life has
compared to for Thought like duty and
right there was paint it to be in all
these images in my head and all this
fantasy you know so it's so crazy and
the flip side of that the other side of
the coin is I think there are always
things we believe about durianrider and
like you forget that you believe them
until something reminds you of them or
challenging them like to give you an
example like years ago he probably still
says back remember during writers saying
that he has like a lot of friends on the
African Olympic teams like Olympic
athletes from Kenya like oh yeah like he
would say like oh yeah I've trained with
those guys like those guys are friends
of mine and then like something
reminds you of it Eve whatever a year
later something you're thinking has
durianrider ever actually talked to
anyone on the Kenyan Olympic running
team like like they haven't appeared to
say like it's it's not even something
I'd like really questioned like you know
I don't know why not why wouldn't he be
friends with some Olympic athletes from
Kenya and then he realized like he lies
about everything else including like
just lying that he has friends who are
gonna beat me up like that to like it so
it's a really weird thing when you're
there when you're actually there in
Chiangmai it just it just blows my mind
that someone would lie about that and
the reality is he doesn't have those
friends he's alone you know and like one
of the reasons why he spent so much time
with Julia Bohr is because he really is
alone he neither has the friends from
the Kenyan Olympic team nor does he have
the kind of tough guy friends he's sort
of bragging about you know I think that
became so obvious recently because like
obviously what he done to you
and we basically the view during radar
being exposed to so and you know people
who we're his friends such as vegan
gains and you know PR people who worked
on why don't we test these ass in some
cases well you know you've got vegan
gains white twins people just were like
veces not on and so they came they don't
turn against them but they don't like go
with the floor welcome and he sees that
as backstabbing so no like obviously
then he didn't like that so then he
rates them off there are no they are no
longer his friends okay and then now all
these videos are on here look at the
up-and-coming channels and the raffle
for movement and it's all these like you
don't know video honor and I think I've
taken see a part of it just laughing up
so you've got vegan a about you get
Julia Boer you've got all these like
other yo simian right I'll sue me and I
think is there too right yeah yeah and
it so it's like and yeah I some man and
stuff in it so it's like he's he's like
getting these are all my new friends
it's like that that's who is late to I
mean he's got no friends so now he's
like generally senior people and and
Cana training them up in the rotor for
we so that they wouldn't backstab them
you know that that's what I see as
anyway and I don't know I I agree with
you and I'm gonna be self-critical in
this agreement because many people think
this is something I have in common with
durianrider
and it is actually different like many
people so I think the root of that for
durianrider is paranoia and like the
word paranoia is funny because we kind
of use it too often but we don't use it
very seriously like we say that kind of
character is on a TV show or paranoid
but like exactly what you just described
with during writer the reason why like
you know there's no reason why he
shouldn't be friends with vegan gains
still today like I know both directly
into really vegan gains wanted to remain
his friend but he needed durianrider to
kind of just be reasonable you know for
during writer to say oh look I [ __ ] up
I'm sorry you know for during writer to
kind of modify his behavior in a
friendly way which during writer can't
do so it to me it's fundamentally a
paranoid behavior for him that either
you're a hundred percent is supporter or
you're his enemy because he suspects you
he's suspicious he thinks you're
plotting he thinks you're trying to
destroy him you know that's the way he
treats vegan gains even or these other
people no I just say people think that
about me because I called a natural
vegan an idiot and think well I called I
called something she said stupid I
didn't even call her stupid but whatever
um and you know I under I really do
understand why people say that about me
because they think I'm playing a similar
game to durianrider and in a sense it's
not even insulting to me but you know as
it happens psychologically it's not true
I'm really not paranoid and in the other
hand I find I find it very hard to even
be embittered towards people I really do
feel a kind of love for my fellow vegans
which you know even the people who are
idiots
even the people who you know I really
feel
like if only they could put the pieces
of the puzzle together in a different
way you know there's so much we have in
common we want the same goals you know I
actually do feel a kind of brotherly
love and even affection for some of
these people who are totally despicable
like vegan Ava I mean thinking Ava's a
joke but I don't hate her I'm not mad I
find it hard I find it hard to be mad at
durianrider I'll just say that oh my god
yeah well you think I'd get people think
that about you
because I think at honestly the people
who say that about you I think they
honestly don't watch your videos they
just click on your videos and hate you
like without even watching them because
I mean everything that you've just said
there are you you're like explain that
and one of your recent videos of it
tolerance and things and um you know
that's exactly what you've said there
and unnatural be vegan obviously there
was things that used s agreed wealth on
and that's completely fine this is
mature we're not all gonna give each
other
you just made them your videos that
yesterday I think about saying that
there's something like the thing that
you don't I can even cheat out on but
like wow we don't need to agree on
everything you know but then people wait
during either just think that you have
to agree 100% and like you were saying
with vegan either there and oh yeah I'll
give you another example of it Julia
borer and she plain obviously I came out
and I said look I'm not like my Betty I
was like I can't support doing right
there anymore and and everything and
then ready are we she completely deflate
indeed me and on our tumblr she received
backstabbin bet you know that said I was
like oh my god just because I was better
then I threatened her things and I don't
want my songs are saying because people
were asking and I was saying look Julie
I can fall we didn't meet her as she
wants I hope she does can't open her
mind a little bit but I mean as far as
I'm concerned we're still friends but
then she completely vote me off and just
because I did not support daddy duty and
Raider you know so that's that's the
difference but people need I think if
people grew up then you know well
hopefully people will grow up
I know exactly what you're seeing yeah I
didn't know I feel like I mean you know
I really do feel like what happened to
me in Chiang Mai it's not because it's
me not because of my ego but because I
was this kind of canary in the coal mine
I think it is a turning point for for
digital veganism maybe for veganism in
general and like everything that's
happening in Chiangmai it's not that
dangerous if people can laugh at it you
know but like you yourself have been
through exactly the transition there was
a time when you took like the Chiang Mai
scene deadly serious when it was serious
to you and then at a certain point it
just becomes a joke you know when it
kind of loses all power of you but on a
bigger scale I think I think it's
happened to tons of people and it's
something I never could have done
intentionally I just kind of happened to
be there I happen to be one of the
people it was focused on but you know
like everyone is laughing about it now
and you know channels like Jo vegan and
vegan cheetah they obviously show that
off but I'd like to think that the
danger like the cult like danger has
really been averted for the long-term
because we've taken something used to be
so powerful and we've exposed it for
what it was and now people can laugh
about it which is great too right yeah I
think and I think you're right other the
danger of and things and always have a
scene when I was in which he or the
other day and we watch we and we were
stood in right didn't he he may have I
know because for the comedy aspect of it
of course I think most people see them
as feats and we can't actually believe
that some of the stuff that we're seeing
and sad is that as I think that's a
truth but there's something is well
worth a durianrider and the wattle forth
banquet I know you're seeing like as
most theme to this anymore but I think
for some people it can be dangerous
because it seems to be that the people
that are attracted to that and that kina
we'll call it the cult anyway because I
can't think of a better name Florida but
the and I'm speaking from my own
experience here and obviously Chi has
been there as well as people who Eva are
very young like Julia born young and
influential or
people who come from
in a background or even mental illness
or affection or something and are really
in a place where they're lost in our
life it's the same thing that other
coats do that are not like righto for
you know and honorable people get drawn
into this because you feel personally
from personal experience when I'm
feeling you're fighting and in disorder
our mental illness it can be very a very
lonely a very lonely fate and you look
for people and you find something and
there will come in and it's hard to
explain but you're really attracted to
that and I think for some and when you
look at the people that actually fall a
little four-note I mean they either are
really young or they just didn't seem
mentally oh dear
look I I agree with I agree with
everything you just said and that is a
small number of people from it really is
a cult you know I agree like you know
but the the total number of people that
I don't know if it's fifty people I
don't know if it's a hundred people but
like really it could be fewer than 50
people but there definitely are some
people you know like including vegan Ava
in my opinion you know who for whom that
has that cult-like intestine I got to
meet several of them face to face in in
Chiangmai actually k1 I can mention by
name Momo she appeared on my channel
recently she's an Asian girl but she
speaks English fluently so she was in
the video showing um just showing how
lame the Chiang Mai festival is well I
was talking about it you know I was
narrating it but you know Momo when I
met her in in Chiang Mai you know she
said hi to me in like one word she she
saw me she knew exactly who I was and
knew the significance of my being there
and you know that she then saw Leah so
you've probably seen the video with Leah
on my channel so you know each other
cool you know so leah is now like 20
years old but she dropped at a high
school like that you know it's pretty
cult-like you know her whole experience
even though she doesn't talk about the
way she talks about in a very relaxed
way which is cool but still it's it's
pretty messed up and among other things
like this whole cult ultimately is about
weight loss and fitness and Leah gained
and a ton of weight whatever was I
forget 30 kilograms what she gained a
lot of weight and just nobody ever
mentions it you know because like they
can't lose faith in the unlimited
calories you know you know balance your
[ __ ] you know glycogen stores all
this all this [ __ ] that during
writers been preaching for so long they
have to believe in it so if someone's
gaining fat you either ignore it or you
justify it the same way Julia Bohr does
but like it was just even though not a
lot was said like Momo was there she
looked at me with this steely gaze and
then she walked over and gave Lia a hug
and a smile and looked at Lia and then
moved away from her and it was like you
could see I mean oh I do not know maybe
now maybe Momo has gotten out of her
system maybe a month in the cult was
enough for her but like in those few
moments of her interaction with me and
Lea like she knew like Lia was an
outcast
Lia had been kicked out of the cult and
like to say anything to Lia was
dangerous you know what I mean you could
you could not be friends with Lea
anymore it really was cult-like and just
the look in her eyes and the fear and
everything else and of course Leo wasn't
like that Ali at Leah's just totally
relaxed and doesn't give a [ __ ] that's
that's what Lea's like I think all the
time anyway but she's kind of ignoring
all this this kind of tension in the air
and you know I'm certain for Hannah
Chloe you know I'm certain for Hannah it
would have been exactly the same but
even worse because there was a sexual
component you know where it's just like
no like durianrider and or freely have
declared you no longer human nobody can
talk to you and most we can kind of
silently smile so yeah that that that
part of it is real before a small number
of people yeah as I seen because like
Legion isn't really shouldn't be like
that it shouldn't be about the
segregation I mean there's enough of
that
and unfortunately it just seems to be
that king of what they're creating and
it's becoming even more so because I
don't know if you've seen the criteria
to actually qualify for the bait face
next year make sure you have to well
is a certain amount of males and stuff
on struggle but you've also got to have
your own rota for YouTube channel and
everything I mean so that they're like
segregating it even more and that's just
I mean fairness that's something that
you add to but it's the fact that they
are they're doing this in the name of
activism in the name of veganism and
it's not yeah well anyway I mean look
though and those guys those guys the
ones I've met they are a bunch of losers
I mean I'm sorry the guys who actually
do that who followed Dorian Ryder's
commands and one of them just confessed
to me he was like oh well you know like
before Duran Ryder forced us to do this
cuz like you know he wasn't allowed to
attend the festival if you didn't have a
bike and a Strava account blah blah blah
he mentioned he was a go like I was into
other sports and he mentioned what the
sports world just always leave it
anonymous but it was like you know the
guy is pathetic anyway but it's like you
know that too it's like okay so you you
bought a bicycle and you started kind of
living a lie even though and it's not
that he has no athleticism he has some
other sport he'd rather be doing
you know seeing part of this but I think
you know when you get away from the
hardcore cult members on a larger scale
I think what they really exploited was
the loneliness of being vegan you know
you mentioned loneliness is driving the
cult members yeah that's true but the
softcore followers I think they're
mostly people who just feel so alone you
know even if you still love your family
you feel alienated from your family like
I don't I don't give a [ __ ] about the
other students here at this school but
you know they literally eat pieces of
dead cow and you know yogurt and [ __ ] in
front of me every day I generally don't
sit and eat with them at all uh you know
uh you know look maybe I'm an [ __ ]
anyway and it's irrelevant but like you
know it's true your ability to form
relationships with your your fellow man
whether its students at your school
coworkers whatever I just do think all
over the world people who are not
psychologically weak who are not
susceptible to the cult-like aspects
still that loneliness and wanting to
belong to something I think that was
very very powerful in drawing people in
and then it was combined with
images of you know the beach of just
just uh basically an escapist fantasy so
then a much larger number of people were
participating in on that level and it
fed guests loneliness fundamentally was
was what was being preyed upon their I
mean yeah I mean I still feel like
that's less keynote like I don't do so
much anymore because I don't know my
youtube channel seems they've grown and
I'm connecting with so a few cool no and
it's amazing like I feel so lonely even
though boy it's that you tell you know
but I don't have people in like n
Glasgow or and Scotland and things and
and wait we'll England and stuff and
like I'll do some the apps and things
soon but the fact because I mean even
less weekend it's an example my mom is
like she found you coming
she always says you comin home like to
my parents house and I was like I've got
stuff to do but you know it was sadly
because I just didn't even really want
it want to go because what you see they
just certain pieces of dead Calvin Klein
of you and theory and they don't even
they don't care and if you try and bring
up anything I've eaten Osama and then of
the ethics it's like more than like they
just blanked me and you know so I don't
even want to go home some things and see
them to cause a rush reason so as you
know I've comment that for me it's like
I'm alienated all three ways like I'm
not part of the meat culture I'm not
part of the alcohol culture and I'm also
not part of the drug culture like you
know I don't use don't use marijuana
don't use alcohol don't use don't you do
use meat and like so much of
socialization in both you know
United Kingdom and in Canada it's really
based on those things I was going to
I'll just mention my own experience
really briefly but I assume you have
things like this too
but you know in terms of dealing with
medical doctors that can also be a
really kind of painful form of
alienation medical doctors who regard
you as insane or unhealthy because
you're vegan when my daughter was born
that was part of the huge tension
was that there were people inside the
you know inside the hospital who had
power over us doctors and nurses and
what have you who treated us like [ __ ]
because we were vegan and you know they
kept asking questions like oh so you
guys are Scientologists right you know
like Scientology is this freak new
religion United States it's like you
know yeah it's like no and notice like
that one they would they were all again
in terms of my physically intimidating
aspect they would always wait to like
bully my wife when I was not in the room
and [ __ ] about that kind of stuff and
it's like you know she'd have to say to
them why would you like Scientology has
nothing to do with veganism you know
what I mean but that kind of [ __ ] it
just reflected like the extreme contempt
the doctors had and their assumption
that their assumption that we were
opposed to modern medical science
despite all the evidence to the contrary
like you know in terms of the questions
we asked and everything else were very
Pro science just but I mean it was
really awful and there were many other
things with awesome experience but they
were bad but I know it sounds ridiculous
to talk about prejudice against vegans
but in a medical context you can deal
with doctors who are to say the least
prejudice against you were really
hostile towards you because you're being
well it's actually worse when you are in
your medical condition as disorder
anyway you can imagine how bad that is
because they may just think there is
another eating disorder or you know well
you need dating you need tip with
calcium and deity for your bones and
then they'll give you all these studies
which show that um well you know in
theory is good and then I'm like yeah
but all these studies are only by the
meat and dairy industry and you know as
so as definitely but you know at the end
of it is is our life's and it's like you
say you're just gonna get on and just do
without clear to this I suppose but
hopefully and I mean I don't know what I
don't know how to waste and that pair do
this I mean hopefully it will happen
soon but well I can't see a profit
would be nice to even have some sort of
impact on it that is interesting but I
mean that you you in Scotland you do
actually have in a sense those kinds of
debates with doctors they actually talk
to you about that stuff yeah it's pretty
mad no it's the sinners I mean like in
France the kind of hostility dealt with
like the doctors they would not have a
discussion with you which is fine
because I didn't want to waste my time
anyway but it would just be stuff like
the doctors would say things like like
that and for whatever reason they like
assumed me and my ex-wife were like high
school dropouts from a third world
country which is also like really they
assume this and they were like yes well
you think you know what you're talking
about but I'm a medical doctor and like
you for example like um what education
do you have well you like this is like
really like this is so like they're not
addressing veganism they're addressing
whether or not you have the right to
have an opinion and like my my ex-wife
would say I have a PhD from Cambridge
University should like they would say
[ __ ] like well here in France you have
to conform to our system so again this
is not addressing veganism directly but
it's integrated you have to conform to
our system after all how do they do
things in your country they'd say this
to me if you like um I'm from Toronto
Canada where but really we're always yes
it's something us this way like we're
vegans therefore we come from a
third-world country anyway and this is
it a major hospital in France but never
like never once did I have a
conversation of the type you're
describing where like studies or facts
were involved it was just bullying you
know what I mean on the others [ __ ] hey
we can change the subject but I just
wanted to raise that because I thought
probably did have experienced that kind
of evidently you do at some point I
think you probably should make a video
about that because you know talking to
your doctor about veganism or just
dealing with your doctor when you are a
vegan that probably is something a lot
of people have to think about or reflect
on you know yeah that's a good idea
actually I will do a video on that soon
is a good idea
so grateful we're off track there didn't
did you
did you have something you wanted to
press me on did you have a list of
issues you wanted to confront me with I
don't know what I'm you know I'm just
here to get to know you you know I just
really I mean all this love like to talk
to me again and stuff and but it was
just weak
I think him just throw everything that
we actually did speak you know because
we've been through through quick Oh what
I mean
you know I mean we hadn't actually
speaking spoken quite obviously just to
speak to us once but I am I was just
going to wait to see that him I mean I
became vegan just in January this year
and the main reason that I became vegan
Wars for ethical reasons and know that I
even knew anything about it
I knew anything I don't know anything
about veganism but it was through doing
some yoga and also you know how yoga's
kind of intertwined with Buddhist
philosophy and I'm not even gonna talk
to you but good is philosophy because I
don't even know much about it but and I
know you do and however you know the
result is cane at their hands at and
non-harming and the more I read about it
the more I was like you know I can't and
I studied earth science at University
for a bet and I was like I'm really into
environmental issues and honestly I
couldn't call myself an environment an
environmentalist or an animal lover and
I'm still in this and I'm loving this
unethical way style but I was scared to
go vegan the cause of my eating disorder
and I thought that veganism was this
weird eating disorder thing and but they
know what I leave it more than two and I
was like you know I can't live like this
anymore so I just overnight I went vegan
and then since then you know wrong I
went online taking a search for things
and you know what happens when you
google vegan you'll get a banana get one
from a year and so that was keen it over
so the path that I went though and well
you know what just in the last one since
I've stained your content that's the
eyes open
I stole all the things but those are my
eyes two issues that have never even
crossed my mind before you even the
thing like the pay ownership I I'd never
even thought about that as being you
know it's just something that's so
natural everyone's got a bloody dog or a
cat pretty much so I haven't even
thought about these things and no it's
like you your content is just making me
thank you seeing the warrant and a hole
definitely and that's what I really
needed it not just not just to help me
be a better person out there a vegan but
to help me actually the cover and pursue
the company because when you've got an
eating disorder or any illness or
addiction quite often you get stuck
often the perme mentality and you look
what we don't ready with the other dean
that you've done and oh god what was it
there you're done a video is quite
something of its softening what is it
called the one on utilitarianism or the
black-and-white issue I don't know they
suffered in and God I'm trying I'm
trying finger only I can I can get the
list the videos you like but I could go
on anyone is something was something so
and they might just walk to me and I was
like wow that is exactly I had I've been
like Cana really and just caught up in
my own my own problems and my own issues
and cure me but then know that I'm when
you become vegan and you become aware of
all the other other issues that are
going on in the world and our other
thing is that you're going up in your
videos it's like my problems are so
insignificant compared to this and no
it's like um every choice that I make is
not just for me you know it's not all
about me anymore
in fact is hardly about me at all I'm
not the issue the issue is meeting the
world of their place and that you've got
no idea how significant that is for
someone who's
confident it's it's it's a game-changer
it really as I can't change her from me
and I believin I don't really know how
to describe or or if it's even making
any sense
I think thank you I mean first of all I
can take a compliment I mean thank you
very much it's it's very flattering I do
I do appreciate what you said and I I
think I get the pardon me I think I
can't understand it because I went
through similar you know changes in
perspective just much earlier in life
and I think you know what you say I
reminds me a couple days ago I got some
hate mail from someone demanding to know
from me you know what is my message
anyway obviously you know there was a
longer statement than that but I
remember just in response to that I
thought you know for me subjectively I
have no message like I am just like for
me the ultimate message is no message
like I just come on camera and talk
about my life and it happens that I'm a
really unusual character and when I talk
about my life I talk for 20 minutes
about you know vegan politics and
philosophy and this kind of stuff but I
do think that for the audience like if I
was gonna say what is the message of my
channel it probably is just in a really
simple sense you know things don't have
to be simple it's okay for things to be
complicated
and you know it's okay for us to admit
that we don't have all the answers and
it's okay for us to really think about
these kinds of complexities and
contradictions now I realize that's that
sounds almost childish in its simplicity
but on a very fundamental level it's not
because it's such a contrast to for
example to saying I can solve your
eating disorder here's how you know it's
it's a simple here's a simple solution
to a complicated problem I can solve
global warming you know here's how it's
a simple solution to a complicated
problem and you know this still like
there's a sense in which I also want to
be idealistic I want to you know I want
to indulge in those things but the whole
approach oh I've got an echo happening
the the whole approach I take is instead
to say it's okay for things to be
complicated it's okay for us to you know
embrace it admit
the things that don't make sense they're
all things we don't have answers to but
obviously in having those conversations
it's wonderful that people like you are
asking new questions and also you know
finding new answers so that's great my
impression of you back when I first got
to know you online I just thought you
were too smart for a lot of the [ __ ]
you were involved and I was right I won
my bed so you're uh you your story has a
happy ending for me you know well T that
is a compliment but that is Cana exactly
what has happened and like I said I told
I said the reason how I can't and got
involved in that because I was like in a
very vulnerable place and just looking
for something but know that I'm kind of
looking back and I'm not from the
outside I mean I'm like it just seems so
ridiculous in your head and I'm just
like I'm not like that I'm one of the
people that really needs to be I really
need you always see that your channel is
not veganism 101 and I don't need
veganism 101 I just when I got up in the
morning our stuff or if see when I'm and
like even making my dinner and stuff I
sweat or know one day you're one of your
videos like on my phone or something
just and have that playing in me
listening to play along just doing stuff
and I'm like this is really this is
going this is what I've been messing
with esquina intellectually stimulating
stuff as opposed to just raise your
bacon eat bananas and wait what I eat
you know I saw this is as it's like this
is really really helping and helping me
in a personal level and it's helping it
just helped me to understand veganism
and they'll help me hopefully to just
kinda to do what I wanted doing like
make a small change in the world even if
that is possible I think though that is
a difference say you started with
ethical veganism and you know I think
that is really natural where you start
with those ethical questions that are
focused on your cell
because they're about what you're gonna
do and what you're gonna eat how you're
gonna live and then you look outward and
figure out how does this fit into the
rest of the world whether that's whether
or not that's trying to save the world
when though there's anything so
grandiose I remember I read an article
years and years ago about a sort of
religious cult group in Spain and it was
a Catholic group but it was kind of a
weird cult-like group within Catholicism
and the article was written because some
some significant political figures had
had become members of this group and so
on and I remember one of the things that
a member said do you think it was an
ex-member so it wasn't her fault
he said you know the reality is with
Catholicism once they tell you like
you've you've saved your soul and you're
gonna go to heaven after you die
there's nothing for you to do you know
it doesn't give you a mission in the
world doesn't give me anything and
that's why people want to get involved
with this group is because you know it's
it's not enough to just be told
oh now you're one of the good people now
you're one of the saved people is gonna
go to heaven you know people want to
take on some more some more
responsibility I think you know
obviously I'm not saying this to flatter
veganism I think that's a really natural
thing for people to want to take a next
step people say okay I've accepted this
fundamental principle that changes my
life you know how do all the other
pieces fit together now because even if
they don't change much you know what the
truth is the other the other pieces do
fit together a little bit differently
whether that's your perspective and what
you do at work or you know your
perspective on your your pet dog or you
know these other questions of you know
what what is the future you know like
for me what is the future of Canada or
for you what is the future of Scotland I
think all those things even if it's only
in a subtle way they do change a bit
once you've you've become an ethical
vegan and a lot of people will be like
or claim to be ethical vegans and I mean
they are but then oh wait wait because
I'm not too vegan for instance and you
know so she'll see like she's a ethical
vegan but then they want one
thing like the pay ownership thing that
she obviously feels really strongly
about and you know she's not so willing
to just lessen the other perspectives on
that and she gets really wound up about
it and quit defenses do you think that
worth quite a lot of people and that you
mentioned actually in your video there
was at the dual fate one if we are you
talk yeah you said that you lived in the
border between France and Spain and they
they were like the ethical vegans that
you were talking to they are they were
thing to talk about um certain issues
but then the pool faint you know shoe
you know it was like they were not so
when Tracy's and talking about that you
know what I mean yeah look at me oh so a
natural vegan she did she started at the
opposite extreme she started as a raw
food you know crazy cult member who quit
using fluoride and you know she lost
most of her teeth I forget she says she
got 14 cavities or something because she
read a book that convinced her of a lot
of the stupid [ __ ] freelee and
durianrider still teach that you should
stop brushing your teeth you should stop
using soap and shampoo and you should
eat nothing but raw fruit and this kind
of thing so she started out at that end
and she became disillusioned with it and
then she built her channel on this image
of herself as an ultra rational
proponent of science which she isn't
that's not her background in university
or professionally or otherwise now my
point here is not just to kind of
denounce her as an idiot even though I
do kind of especially after my recent
experience that I regard her as a person
of both limited morality and limited
intellect you know like some of the
glaring examples of that she actually
claimed that a dog does not know that it
has been castrated a male dog despite
the fact that as I pointed out dogs
literally lick their own balls and I
have seen scientific studies looking at
the fact that dogs are ever but how
could they not be
they can see and smell their own
testicles and what-have-you and you know
her dismissing any view to the contrary
is as pseudoscience in
I in my conversation with thera-band
this comes back to my background in
Buddhism
she was really actively threatening to
denounce me and defame me much more than
she did in reference to my background in
in Buddhism and so that was kind of an
interesting and strange conversations I
had to say to her we'll look you know I
lost more than ten years in my life
being a scholar of Buddhism and like you
can google it yourself or here are some
lengths like you can see that I actually
made a big impact in that field and yeah
there are there are people who call me
an [ __ ] on the internet like you can
find Buddhists discussion forums where
people say I'm I'm a bad guy because
they disagree with my views but you can
also see evidence that I had like a real
impact on that field I made a real
contribution in terms of you know the
lectures I delivered the essays I
published and just the number of
websites where they list like a website
that lists useful resources for that
area of study where they're listing a
whole bunch of things with my name on it
you know and I said to her straight up
have you ever done anything like that
Swasey in any field like do you know
what that's like in the sciences or
anything else you know to devote years
your life to something and become a
specialist and like yes some people
respect you and some people hate you so
I mean it is kind of a weird thing but
Swasey she's not really an ethical vegan
she didn't get into it through the
ethical route she's not really a
scientist she's not really interested in
science so she's kind of sitting on the
fence of a few different issues I mean
for me the bottom line is I'm happy if
anyone is actually earning a living by
talking about veganism that's very rare
and she is you know this is her her
full-time job and I've had to say to her
repeatedly this is not my full-time job
I'm not a full-time youtuber so you know
if you really want to hold me to these
standards cuz her excuse for denouncing
me was that I didn't spend enough time
addressing her idiotic video on the
topic I think if you add up if you add
up the total number of minutes I've got
on domestication of animals now I don't
know it's a couple hours or something so
I think I did plenty of time but it has
say look what do you want I'm in school
I'm not like you
not a full-time youtuber and again not
unlike you I've done other things in my
life like becoming scholar Buddhism so
whatever that's that's where it's gonna
end with Swayze and yeah I mean it would
be a better world if people like Swayze
and I could cooperate something she
never was interested in doing with me
for whatever reason I think she's always
basically disliked me and that's okay
she's allowed to and to be a better
world if I could cooperate with someone
like durianrider - I still think it's
kind of sad and kind of lame you know
even as as bad as as the whole
background is it would be a better world
if if he could put it aside and and do
something positive you know to save the
planet and all that stuff right Sweezey
is like a feel quick wait wait think I
haven't realized I made up and you seem
like my youtubers and I do like some
content I think it's good free content
so I put hot in it and it like pretty
much all people here oh she stops
obviously doing next thing what she's
back to you but I think it's completely
I mean like you said she was digging up
stuff remover on Buddhist Wooden's from
years ago just to try and make you look
bad I mean that's not I can't respect
that of anyone I mean okay are people
yeah but it's cool that you noticed that
most people don't even notice
like pretty but most people just think
she did nothing wrong and it's like yeah
that's a significant question right
anyway I go on so many people just think
she's done nothing wrong and I mean okay
I'm done used a few dirty invaders but
it wasn't these videos from a couple
years ago and you know just to make
funny videos and stuff but the fact is
I'm not doing that to make them look bad
they've already made themselves look by
then I'm just gonna win enough you have
funny little things but the fact is she
doesn't have enough on you and like so
she wasn't going and just kina
finding things that could possibly make
you look bad in the context they're not
even
the context so people don't know what
Conte expresses n and they're like oh my
god that eyes or guys such a you know
they hate you because of that they they
hate me because Swayze tells them to
hate me I mean that's that's the real -
I go on yeah exactly
no sorry I was I was finished there no I
just say with all that stuff like I
don't feel I have anything to be ashamed
of and again like you can read my essays
on Buddhism some of them are very boring
some of them are interestingly I have
one essay about vegetarianism and
Buddhism you know the history of that
and why it's so misunderstood I it's not
that interesting it's a little bit
interesting but like you know for me
compared to these other people on the
internet like do I feel I've wasted my
life no I mean compared to durianrider
like because during writer during
writers attacked me on the same [ __ ] a
like that's an irony Swasey may not get
during writer did exactly the same thing
Swayze did during writer was posting
like oh look at this Buddhist forum
where some people say that aisel is like
a bad scholar of Buddhism it's like yeah
well guess what I also delivered a
lecture at Oxford University England at
the invitation of a professor emeritus
recognizing my extraordinary scholarship
in the field despite the fact that I did
not have a PhD so yes some people on a
forum say I'm an idiot but there's some
really considerable evidence out there
that I'm not an idiot but like you know
we know like the thing is I don't care I
mean like you know in terms of my
YouTube presence my background as a
scholar of Buddhism has nothing to do
with it like nobody put it this way
nobody takes my opinion on veganism
seriously because of my Buddhist
scholarship like they're just unrelated
things but like I would say for my own
life I do feel that it was a waste of my
time I do feel that I wasted ten years
of my life compared to what I could have
accomplished but it's this weird irony
because it's like well if I'm comparing
myself to durianrider or Swasey I feel
what I did in those 10 years was really
worthwhile and I'm like well if you want
me to be ashamed of what I did as a
scholar of Buddhism simultaneous with
humanitarian work in Laos and Cambodia
simultaneous with all this other [ __ ] I
did
you know don't you feel ashamed of
living on permanent vacation you know
during Ryder or don't you feel a say
ashamed Swasey of doing your kind of
little softcore science show like with
no real ambition like because I would
never bring that fight to you I would
never be going through Facebook trying
to find some example of a comment where
you're an [ __ ] or something to defame
you but it's like okay if we're really
gonna take it that far all right maybe
what I did with my life was dumb maybe I
should have never moved to Laos to
become a scholar of Buddhism but I know
compared to you other losers on YouTube
you know ten years of your life oh well
I mean now I'm stuck learning Chinese at
age 37 as a beginner so you know that's
that's really not what I wanted to do I
mean to give out long story short about
Lauren if you look at a map of Asia what
I decided to do was neither India nor
China but the area in between so that
includes Cambodia Laos Thailand Myanmar
Sri Lanka and that the history and
politics and everything else of that and
that was completely impossible for me to
do either as a career or even as a hobby
and partly the fact that I'm a Canadian
citizen makes it worse but it mostly is
just the failure of academia in those
areas there are no great universities
anywhere neither in Europe nor Canada
nor age'
where I could pursue that kind of thing
or even where I it was also impossible
for me to get a more humble job you know
and pursue that amount of time on the
side which I was totally willing to do
and I was also willing to become a
Buddhist monk or you know teach English
or do all kinds of things you know I got
jobs working in museums and other funny
things I've done various peculiar jobs
to to feed myself was doing the kind of
research but Noah it is a shame if you
spend years and years working very hard
to learn a language and then all of a
sudden you're never gonna speak that
language again that is really heroin and
you spend a lot of time studying
politics and history of a given area and
then all of a sudden you're never gonna
you're never gonna use that knowledge
again so to be cut off from that and go
through that repeatedly is is pretty
awful
yeah I mean in some I'm now basically
unemployable at age 37 and learning
Chinese and getting another university
degree and my own future is uncertain at
best it's it's a very very bleak outlook
and I have expertise in that area look
if I didn't have the YouTube channel
nobody in the world would care which is
also very sad in its way right like it's
sad being on a university campus in
Canada where I know more about Buddhism
than the professor who teaches Buddhism
and I'm sorry that's not a boast it's
just the truth but nobody gives a [ __ ]
you know what can become a professor in
a university well no I have videos about
that but basically that that career path
is really closed off to me I had a
couple videos called like why I don't
have a PhD but know that that was
impossible for me and now at age 37 if I
started on that path when would I start
earning money at like age 50 you know
getting my first professorship so nobody
as say basically it was a failure of
academia related to that part of the
world but the failure is in Europe in
Canada but it's also within Asia like
it's it's just not the case that in
Thailand or Myanmar I could go to
university and get a PhD there nor Japan
China or anywhere else so there's
there's been a lot of failure around the
board it was so that's that's just the
answer question why do I feel that that
was wasting my time there are other
parts I mean the other stuff you hear
about on on YouTube still is meaningful
to me and I don't think is a waste of my
time or not totally so I I knew a woman
in Laos for two years for she knew me
for two years we spoke in both German
and Lao because I could speak German but
I can still speak German to some extent
and you know she told me this
unbelievable story about running away
from America and attack helicopters
through the jungle through the mountains
and you know a woman next to her being
blown in half by the you know the
machine-gun fire from the from the
helicopter and that's that's not a joke
those the helicopters have guns that can
pierce you know steal their
armor-piercing rounds at a big big
caliber so they do if one of them hits
you it hits
it will tear you in half it's not like a
normal normal gun and you know some of
that stuff the humanitarian work and the
human suffering and the first-person
view of history some of that stuff I
could say is not a waste of my time
but no I'm kind of burdened forever with
a bunch of knowledge and skills that I
never get to use so yeah many all the
people who think I work for the CIA
why the hell would the CIA pay anyone to
do the things that I did with more than
10 years of my life what do you think
the CIA doesn't their money you know I
wish boy we're gonna pay the CIA is
gonna pay me to study Buddhism for ten
years then get involved with First
Nations
you know native people Canada then come
on the internet and talk about veganism
you know for 48 US tax payers dollars at
work you know that great stuff yeah so
Lauren you know we haven't said that
much I think we should wrap up this
conversation but I mean I hope I know
obviously you're in a period of
transition you know you're transitioning
out of the hospital and eventually
you're transitioning out of doing
personal training to but probably you
know the next time I talk to you
probably you know you'll have questions
about your own education your own career
in front of you right yes I probably oh
yeah I don't know I might just try and
cater pursue what I'm doing at the
moment in terms of like the whole vegan
I don't know like can we maybe try and
agree the fatness sale in health and
main set stuff and it's um so because I
do have I have studied like some life
coaching and things but I don't know
because I don't want to be one of those
people who I mean I think I've got a lot
to offer but I don't want to become one
of those people who are just a [ __ ]
I mean I'm not I'm totally not but like
you know I the way become one of these
parent education people yeah well you
know I I had a conversation like that
with another vegan on YouTube who I will
not name or I'll give her a fake name
I'll say her name is Jill her name is
not Jill I was talking to Jill and
she her Channel
you know so there's some kind of life
advice and recipes and food and weight
loss so it's in this area and we were
talking and I was assuming she'd get a
real job while doing that kind of thing
on YouTube part-time and she was really
assuming it would be her main her main
career looking ahead and one of the
things I said to her was look Jill you
can't be better than freely without
actually being better than freely and
what I meant by that
obviously we unpacked it in the
conversation but it's like if you want
to act like a nutritionist you have to
actually get a degree in nutritional
science or one of those fields if you
want to be better than Frehley right
because otherwise you're exactly famous
and you know obviously you know don't
get me wrong it's not hard to be better
than freely in some ways but it's like
one of those things it's like well we we
all have to live up to her hype like if
you're gonna criticize freely for having
fake credentials which she does to my
knowledge you know that was exposed by
the by the press in Australia that that
she lied about having this credential
she doesn't have well what about the
rest of us you know if we're gonna do
that and if you personally are gonna do
that you know it's I think it's probably
not that hard in Scotland if you want to
to get some kind of nutrition science or
health coach credential and you know
you'll it'll probably piss you off you
probably make a lot of videos
complaining about how they teach you
every day how healthy milk is or
whatever couple but if you're not
willing to suffer through that if you're
not willing to write those exams you
can't you know what I mean you can't
come on the internet and pretend you're
better than freely so it's it's the same
for anything else and obviously that the
the health and nutrition is one aspect
of it but mmm you know there's so many
ways in which we all have to ask
ourselves that and I've got I've got
kind of a list of videos I still need to
make I'm uploading I've got like four
word upload now my upload speed is
really slow here but you know one of the
things I wanted to talk about with
myself was that for me it's really
important that I talk in the first
person that I talk about me instead of
giving advice to my audience sometimes
like you know I've got this one video of
uploaded in many languages translated
again and again on community but like in
that video I don't say this is what it
means to be a real vegan and if you
don't do it you're a fake vegan that's
what freely says you know I say this is
what I want this is what I want in my
life and a lot of people may not realize
it but there's a profound difference
because I don't think everyone wants
that I don't think you have to want it
you know what I mean I'm just talking
about me and I you know I do think
that's a difference but obviously you
know for so many people you do get into
giving advice to others from what other
people should do and there's nothing
wrong with that there's nothing evil
about that but then you've really got to
think about you know what is the
difference do you mean freely what is
difference between term writer oh yes
durianrider is there giving advice to
sixteen year olds and 20 year olds and
it blows my mind because I'm I'm very
reluctant to do that you know but it's
like holy [ __ ] I feel like the wise old
man of the mountains you know writer but
like a 16 year old girl asks you for
advice on her sex life you know as you
know that's a real example with which
you Leah bore you know is it your place
to give that advice like on my youtube
channel I talk about my sex life I talk
about my life you know period and I
never it never enters into my mind that
a 16 year old would take that as like
guidance or anything else you know so
yeah that's my warning you don't get to
be young twice you don't you [ __ ] it
up once and it's over so I got two
things to mention but you know within my
own family one of my grandmother's was a
little bit like that after her husband
died so she was alone she just led this
totally irresponsible life you know
again it's not evil but like you know
she played tennis
she just had fun she just did nothing
you know I mean she just lived a life of
self-indulgence
and I I really regarded that as immoral
again I may be a complete jerk but you
know I kind of regard that with people
like Joe best or anything else also it's
like well look you know this actually
isn't your time to be a teenager this is
your time to be a grown-up in his case
yeah maybe he is old enough to be a
grandparent maybe this is your time to
have a grandfatherly role but you know
that that grandmother she was never like
a grandmother to me she didn't even have
responsibilities like that in my life
and you know she also didn't have any
any kind of social or political or a you
know any any kind of interest in making
the world a better place so anyway again
I'm probably a complete jerk to think
that about my own grandmother but um you
know that that is that is how I think
about her and that's you know I'm also
self-critical that way I wish I could
have a greater sense of responsibility
for making the world a better place
myself but at the moment I can't
and I hope learning Chinese is not a
complete dead end I hope this isn't a
complete waste of my time and look and
the other thing was gonna say so maybe
maybe we should close on this we were
talking for well over an hour but you
know um the other day when I was on the
vegan cheetahs live broadcast you know
you've you've been on there you've been
on there more than I have you guys are
the odd couple that's great great you
and she to get along but you know one of
the things I said because you look at
the age group for who his viewers are
and they are young and almost that
exception those people actually are the
future of veganism actually I'm not
joking and you know durianrider and
Frehley are not durianrider and Frehley
are like 2012 which is already over Joe
best is not and it is really interesting
to think what is it like to be 15 years
old today and watching vegan cheetah on
YouTube and of course they also to some
extent they watch me they watch you but
whatever let's just take cheetah as the
example they grow up thinking about
veganism as something normal and as
something import
in a way totally different from how you
and I ever thought about veganism right
and five years from now they're all
gonna be whatever 2025 they're all gonna
be five years older and they're gonna
know who you are
and they're gonna Know Who I am and
they're gonna who cheat is and they're
gonna have a much more mature outlook on
veganism because they already did all
this immature stuff when they were 15
they didn't wait like Joe bast waited
till he was 40 or something I don't know
right he's doing this teenage stuff now
you know what I mean so to me that's
something really kind of powerfully
optimistic about the future and I think
it's something optimistic like for your
future personally as as the vegan laughs
like you know five years from now you
can go to some animal rights conference
or event or ten years from now or 20
years from now and you'll meet people
who grew up watching your channel you'll
meet people who say hey you know I
discovered your channel five years ago
when I just broke up with my boyfriend
whatever the story is you know you're
gonna you're gonna meet people have that
have that contact with them so I I don't
say that because it's important as an
ego trip I actually think that's
important for the future of veganism you
know all right
great doggy you laughs I'm gonna stop
now because otherwise we'll talk all
night okay yeah wonderful to meet you at
long last you know what I'm about a
bonus Yin